.TH CSV\-TO\-TSV 1 "February 16, 2013" 
.SH NAME
.PP
csv\-to\-tsv \- convert CSV to TSV
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
csv\-to\-tsv OPTIONS [CSV_FILE]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Read a CSV file from file specified on command line or standard input
and write the corresponding TSV file to standard output.
.PP
In the TSV format fields are delimited by tabs and records are
terminated by an end\-of\-line marker.
\f[C]csv\-to\-tsv\f[] uses newline as the end\-of\-line marker.
.PP
There is no mechanism for quoting tabs or newlines, and by default
\f[C]csv\-to\-tsv\f[] will fail if they occur in the fields of the CSV
file.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\-d DELIMITER, \-\-delimiter=DELIMITER : Used to read CSV files which
use DELIMITER to separate fields instead of a comma.
.PP
\-e, \-\-escape : Use backslash escape sequences to escape tabs,
carriage returns, newlines, and backslashes.
.PP
\-\-header=NAME[,NAME...] : comma\-separated list of column names.
Use if CSV does not have a header row.
.PP
\-q QUOTECHAR, \-\-quotechar=QUOTECHAR : Used to read CSV files which
use QUOTECHAR to quote fields instead of double quotes.
.PP
\-r, \-\-replace : replaces tabs and characters that should be
interpreted as newlines as newlines with spaces.
The characters treated as newlines are: 85 2028 2029.
.PP
\-x, \-\-strip : Remove tabs, carriage returns, and newlines in fields.
.PP
\-z, \-\-squeeze : replace tabs and characters that should be
interpreted as newlines with spaces and then replace adjacent spaces
with a single space.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]tsv\-to\-csv\f[] (1)
.PP
http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4180.txt
.PP
http://www.iana.org/assignments/media\-types/text/tab\-separated\-values
.SH AUTHORS
Clark Grubb.
