.TH DOM\-AWK 1 "February 17, 2013" 
.SH NAME
.PP
dom\-awk \- read HTML or XML into a DOM object and process it with a
Ruby script.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
dom\-awk [\-x|\-h] (\-f SCRIPT_PATH) | RUBY_SCRIPT) [XML_OR_HTML_FILE]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Read an HTML or XML document from a command line path or standard input
and process it with a Ruby script.
The Ruby script can be specified on the command line like \f[C]awk\f[],
or the Ruby code can be in a file whose path is provided with the
\f[C]\-f\f[] option.
.PP
The HTML/XML document is parsed using the Ruby Nokogiri library and made
available to the Ruby script which is provided as a command line
argument.
The Ruby DOM object is put in the global accumulator variable $_.
.PP
A Nokogiri DOM object is a hierarchical tree of Nodes.
Here are some of the most useful Node methods:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
[]\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ treat\ Node\ as\ Hash\ of\ its\ attributes
children()\ \ \ return\ NodeSet\ of\ children
content()
css()\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ return\ NodeSet\ which\ matches\ CSS\ rule
document()
parent()
to_s()
xpath()\ \ \ \ \ \ return\ NodeSet\ 
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Some useful NodeSet methods.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
[]
each()
filter()
include?()
length()
\f[]
.fi
.PP
A summary of XPath and CSS selectior syntax:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ xpath\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ css\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ dom
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\ \ \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\ \ \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
by\ id\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ //*[\@id="foo"]\ \ \ \ \ \ \ #foo\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ getElementById("foo")
by\ class\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ //*[\@class="foo"]\ \ \ \ .foo\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ getElementsByClassName("foo")
by\ tag\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ //div\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ div\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ getElementsByTagName("div")
by\ attribute\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ //*[\@title]\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ [title]
by\ attribute\ value\ \ \ //*[\@title="foo"]\ \ \ \ [title="foo"]
union\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ //h1\ |\ //h2\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ h1,\ h2
child\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ [\@class="foo"]/li\ \ \ \ .foo\ >\ li
descendant\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ [\@class="foo"]//td\ \ \ .foo\ td
\f[]
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
curl\ www.google.com\ |\ dom\-awk\ \ \[aq]$_.xpath("//a").each\ {|o|\ puts\ o["href"]\ }\[aq]

echo\ \[aq]<xml><foo>bar</foo></xml>\[aq]\ |\ dom\-awk\ \[aq]$_.xpath("//foo").each\ {\ |o|\ puts\ o.content\ }\[aq]
\f[]
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\-f SCRIPT_PATH, \-\-file=SCRIPT_PATH : Use Ruby code in SCRIPT_PATH to
process input.
.PP
\-h, \-\-html : Used to indicate input is HTML.
.PP
\-x, \-\-xml : Used to indicate input is XML.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]curl\f[] (1), \f[C]w3m\f[] (1)
.PP
http://nokogiri.org/Nokogiri/XML/Node.html
.SH AUTHORS
Clark Grubb.
