.TH HEXEDIT 1 "February 2013" 
.SH NAME
.PP
hexedit \- view and edit files in hexadecimal or in ASCII
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
hexedit [\-s | \-\-sector][\-m | \-\-maximize] [\-h |
\-\-help][filename]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
hexedit shows a file both in ASCII and in hexadecimal.
The file can be a device as the file is read a piece at a time.
You can modify the file and search through it.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
"\-s, \-\-sector" Format the display to have entire sectors.
.PP
"\-m, \-\-maximize" Try to maximize the display.
.PP
"\-h, \-\-help" Show the usage.
.SH COMMANDS (quickly)
.PP
\f[I]Moving\f[]
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
<,\ >\ :\ \ go\ to\ start/end\ of\ the\ file
Right:\ \ next\ character
Left:\ \ \ previous\ character
Down:\ \ \ next\ line
Up:\ \ \ \ \ previous\ line
Home:\ \ \ beginning\ of\ line
End:\ \ \ \ end\ of\ line
PUp:\ \ \ \ page\ forward
PDown:\ \ page\ backward
Miscellaneous

F2:\ \ \ \ \ save
F3:\ \ \ \ \ load\ file
F1:\ \ \ \ \ help
Ctrl\-L:\ redraw
Ctrl\-Z:\ suspend
Ctrl\-X:\ save\ and\ exit
Ctrl\-C:\ exit\ without\ saving

Tab:\ \ \ \ toggle\ hex/ascii
Return:\ go\ to
Backspace:\ undo\ previous\ character
Ctrl\-U:\ undo\ all
Ctrl\-S:\ search\ forward
Ctrl\-R:\ search\ backward
Cut&Paste

Ctrl\-Space:\ set\ mark
Esc\-W:\ \ copy
Ctrl\-Y:\ paste
Esc\-Y:\ \ paste\ into\ a\ file
Esc\-I:\ \ fill
\f[]
.fi
.SH COMMANDS (full and detailed)
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
o\ Right\-Arrow,\ Left\-Arrow,\ Down\-Arrow,\ Up\-Arrow\ \-\ move\ the\ cursor.\ 
o\ Ctrl+F,\ Ctrl+B,\ Ctrl+N,\ Ctrl+P\ \-\ move\ the\ cursor.\ 
o\ Ctrl+Right\-Arrow,\ Ctrl+Left\-Arrow,\ Ctrl+Down\-Arrow,\ Ctrl+Up\-Arrow\ \-\ move\ n\ times\ the\ cursor.\ 
o\ Esc+Right\-Arrow,\ Esc+Left\-Arrow,\ Esc+Down\-Arrow,\ Esc+Up\-Arrow\ \-\ move\ n\ times\ the\ cursor.\ 
o\ Esc+F,\ Esc+B,\ Esc+N,\ Esc+P\ \-\ move\ n\ times\ the\ cursor.\ 
o\ Home,\ Ctrl+A\ \-\ go\ the\ beginning\ of\ the\ line.\ 
o\ End,\ Ctrl+E\ \-\ go\ to\ the\ end\ of\ the\ line.\ 
o\ Page\ up,\ Esc+V,\ F5\ \-\ go\ up\ in\ the\ file\ by\ one\ page.\ 
o\ Page\ down,\ Ctrl+V,\ F6\ \-\ go\ down\ in\ the\ file\ by\ one\ page.\ 
o\ <,\ Esc+<,\ Esc+Home\ \-\ go\ to\ the\ beginning\ of\ the\ file.\ 
o\ >,\ Esc+>,\ Esc+End\ \-\ go\ to\ the\ end\ of\ the\ file\ (for\ regular\ files\ that\ have\ a\ size).\ 
o\ Ctrl+Z\ \-\ suspend\ hexedit.\ 
o\ Ctrl+U,\ Ctrl+_,\ Ctrl+/\ \-\ undo\ all\ (forget\ the\ modifications).\ 
o\ Ctrl+Q\ \-\ read\ next\ input\ character\ and\ insert\ it\ (this\ is\ useful\ for\ inserting\ control\ characters\ and\ bound\ keys).\ 
o\ Tab,\ Ctrl+T\ \-\ toggle\ between\ ASCII\ and\ hexadecimal.\ 
o\ /,\ Ctrl+S\ \-\ search\ forward\ (in\ ASCII\ or\ in\ hexadecimal,\ use\ TAB\ to\ change).\ 
o\ Ctrl+R\ \-\ search\ backward.\ 
o\ Ctrl+G,\ F4\ \-\ go\ to\ a\ position\ in\ the\ file.\ 
o\ Return\ \-\ go\ to\ a\ sector\ in\ the\ file\ if\ \-\-sector\ is\ used,\ otherwise\ go\ to\ a\ position\ in\ the\ file.\ 
o\ Esc+L\ \-\ display\ the\ page\ starting\ at\ the\ current\ cursor\ position.\ 
o\ F2,\ Ctrl+W\ \-\ save\ the\ modifications.\ 
o\ F1,\ Esc+H\ \-\ help\ (show\ the\ man\ page).\ 
o\ Ctrl+O,\ F3\ \-\ open\ another\ file\ 
o\ Ctrl+L\ \-\ redisplay\ (refresh)\ the\ display\ (usefull\ when\ your\ terminal\ screws\ up).\ 
o\ Backspace,\ Ctrl+H\ \-\ undo\ the\ modifications\ made\ on\ the\ previous\ byte.\ 
o\ Esc+Ctrl+H\ \-\ undo\ the\ modifications\ made\ on\ the\ previous\ bytes.\ 
o\ Ctrl+Space,\ F9\ \-\ set\ mark\ where\ cursor\ is.\ 
o\ Esc+W,\ Delete,\ F7\ \-\ copy\ selected\ region.\ 
o\ Ctrl+Y,\ Insert,\ F8\ \-\ paste\ (yank)\ previously\ copied\ region.\ 
o\ Esc+Y,\ F11\ \-\ save\ previously\ copied\ region\ to\ a\ file.\ 
o\ Esc+I,\ F12\ \-\ fill\ the\ selection\ with\ a\ string\ 
o\ Esc+T\ \-\ truncate\ the\ file\ at\ the\ current\ location\ 
o\ Ctrl+C\ \-\ unconditional\ quit\ (without\ saving).\ 
o\ F10,\ Ctrl+X\ \-\ quit.
\f[]
.fi
.PP
For the Esc commands, it sometimes works to use Alt instead of Esc.
Funny things here (especially for froggies :) egrave = Alt+H , ccedilla
= Alt+G, Alt+Y = ugrave.
.PP
\f[I]Modeline\f[]
.PP
At the bottom of the display you have the modeline (copied from emacs).
As in emacs, you have the indications \-\-, ** and %% meaning
unmodified, modified and read\-only.
Then you have the name of the file you\[aq]re currently editing.
Next to it is the current position of the cursor in the file followed by
the total file size.
The total file size isn\[aq]t quite correct for devices.
While in \-\-sector mode, it shows the sector the cursor is in.
.PP
\f[I]Editing\f[]
.PP
You can edit in ASCII or in hexadecimal.
You can switch between the two with Tab.
When the file is read\-only, you can\[aq]t edit it.
When trying to edit a read\-only file, a message (``File is
read\-only\[aq]\[aq]) tells you it is non\-writable.
The modifications are shown in bold until they are saved.
The modeline indicates whether you have modified the file or not.
When editing in hexadecimal, only 0,1,...,9, a,b,...,f, A,B,...F are
legal.
Other keys are unbound.
The first time you hit an unbound key, the help pops up.
It won\[aq]t pop again unless you call the help directly (with F1).
When editing in ascii, you can find it difficult to enter characters
like / which are bound to a function.
The solution is to use the quoted insert function Ctrl+Q, the key after
the quoted insert function is not processed by hexedit (like emacs\[aq]
quoted\-insert, or like the \\ character in C).
Searching
.PP
You can search for a string in ASCII or in hexadecimal.
You can switch between the two with Tab.
If the string is found, the cursor is moved to the beginning of the
matching location.
If the search failed, a message (``not found\[aq]\[aq]) tells you so.
You can cancel the search by pressing a key.
The search in hexadecimal is a bit confusing.
You must give a hexadecimal string with an even number of characters.
The search can then be done byte by byte.
If you want to search a long number (eg: a 32 bit number), you must know
the internal representation of that number (little/big endian problem)
and give it the way it is in memory.
For example, on an Intel processor (little endian), you must swap every
bytes: 0x12345678 is written 0x78563412 in memory and that\[aq]s the
string you must give to the search engine.
Before searching you are asked if you want to save the changes, if the
file is edited.
.PP
For more sophisticated search, see Volker Schatz\[aq]s patch at
http://www.volkerschatz.com/unix/homebrew.html#hexedit.
.PP
\f[I]Selecting, copying, pasting, filling\f[]
.PP
First, select the part of the buffer you want to copy: start setting the
mark where you want.
Then go to the end of the area you want to copy (you can use the go to
function and the search functions).
Then copy it.
You can then paste the copied area in the current file or in another
file.
.PP
You can also fill the selected area with a string or a character: start
choosing the block you want to fill in (set mark then move to the end of
the block), and call the fill function (F12).
hexedit ask you the string you want to fill the block with.
The code is not tuned for huge filling as it keeps the modifications in
memory until you save them.
That\[aq]s why hexedit will warn you if you try to fill in a big block.
.PP
When the mark is set, the selection is shown in reverse mode.
Be aware that the copied area contains the modifications done at the
time of the copy.
But if you undo the modifications, it does not change the content of the
copy buffer.
It seems obvious but it\[aq]s worth saying.
.PP
\f[I]Scrolling\f[]
.PP
The scrolling is different whether you are in \-\-sector mode or not.
In normal mode, the scrolling is line by line.
In sector mode, the scrolling is sector by sector.
In both modes, you can force the display to start at a given position
using Esc+L.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]od\f[](1), \f[C]hdump\f[](1), \f[C]hexdump\f[](1), \f[C]bpe\f[](1),
\f[C]hexed\f[](1), \f[C]beav\f[](1).
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Pixel (Pascal Rigaux) <pixel@rigaux.org>, Home page is
http://rigaux.org/.
.SH UNRESTRICTIONS
.PP
hexedit is Open Source; anyone may redistribute copies of hexedit to
anyone under the terms stated in the GNU General Public License.
You can find hexedit at http://rigaux.org/hexedit\-1.2.13.src.tgz and
http://rigaux.org/hexedit\-1.2.13.bin.i386.dynamic.tgz.
.SH TODO
.PP
Anything you think could be nice...
.SH LIMITATIONS
.PP
There are problems with the curses library given with Redhat 5.0 that
make hexedit think the terminal is huge.
The result is that hexedit is not usable.
The shortcuts work on some machines, and not on others.
That\[aq]s why there are many shortcuts for each function.
The Ctrl+Arrows and the Alt+.
do not work work as they should most of the time.
On SUNs, you must do Ctrl+V\-Ctrl+V instead of Ctrl+V (!); and the Alt
key is the diamond one.
.PP
While searching, it could be interesting to know which position the
search has reached.
It\[aq]s always nice to see something moving to help waiting.
.PP
The hexadecimal search could be able to search modulo 4 bits instead of
8 bits.
Another feature could be to complete padd odd length hexadecimal
searches with zeros.
.SH BUGS
.PP
I have an example where the display is completly screwed up.
It seems to be a bug in ncurses (or maybe in xterm and rxvt)??
Don\[aq]t know if it\[aq]s me using ncurses badly or not...
It seems to happen when hexedit leaves only one space at the end of the
lines...
If anyone has a (or the) solution, please tell me! If you have any
problem with the program (even a small one), please do report it to me.
Remarks of any kind are also welcome.
.SH AUTHORS
Pascal Rigaux.
