.TH HIGHLIGHT 1 "September 12, 2013" 
.SH NAME
.PP
highlight \- highlight text in a stream maching a regular expression
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
highlight REGEX [FILE]
.PP
highlight
(\-\-red|\-\-green|\-\-yellow|\-\-blue|\-\-magenta|\-\-cyan|\-\-white|\-\-black)=REGEX
...
[FILE]
.PP
highlight (\-r|\-g|\-y|\-b|\-m|\-c|\-w)=REGEX ...
[FILE]
.PP
highlight
(\-\-red\-background|\-\-green\-background|\-\-yellow\-background)=REGEX
...
[FILE]
.PP
highlight
(\-\-blue\-background|\-\-magenta\-background|\-\-cyan\-background)=REGEX
...
[FILE]
.PP
highlight (\-\-white\-background|\-\-black\-background)=REGEX ...
[FILE]
.PP
highlight (\-\-bold|\-\-italic|\-\-underline|\-\-inverse)=REGEX ...
[FILE]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Reads lines from file or standard input and writes them to standard out
with any substrings matching REGEX highlighted in red.
.PP
This is similar to \f[C]grep\ \-\-color=always\ REGEX\f[], but grep will
not print lines which don\[aq]t match REGEX at all.
.PP
The default color is red.
The other choices are green, yellow, blue, magenta, cyan, white, and
black.
.PP
Multiple patterns can be specified, but the results when patterns
overlap are unpredictable.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Highlight which shells users are using:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
highlight\ \-r\ /bin/bash\ \-g\ /bin/sh\ \-b\ /usr/bin/zsh\ \-m\ /bin/false\ <\ /etc/passwd
\f[]
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\-r REGEX, \-\-red=REGEX : highlight text matching REGEX in red.
.PP
\-g REGEX, \-\-green=REGEX : highlight text matching REGEX in green.
.PP
\-y REGEX, \-\-yellow=REGEX : highlight text matching REGEX in yellow.
.PP
\-b REGEX, \-\-blue=REGEX : highlight text matching REGEX in blue.
.PP
\-m REGEX, \-\-magenta=REGEX : highlight text matching REGEX in magenta.
.PP
\-c REGEX, \-\-cyan=REGEX : highlight text matching REGEX in cyan.
.PP
\-w REGEX, \-\-white=REGEX : highlight text matching REGEX in white.
.PP
\-\-black=REGEX : highlight text matching REGEX in black.
.PP
\-\-red\-background=REGEX : highlight background of text matching REGEX
in red.
.PP
\-\-green\-background=REGEX : highlight background of text matching
REGEX in green.
.PP
\-\-yellow\-background=REGEX : highlight background of text matching
REGEX in yellow.
.PP
\-\-blue\-background=REGEX : highlight background of text matching REGEX
in blue.
.PP
\-\-magenta\-background=REGEX : highlight background of text matching
REGEX in magenta.
.PP
\-\-cyan\-background=REGEX : highlight background of text matching REGEX
in cyan.
.PP
\-\-white\-background=REGEX : highlight background of text matching
REGEX in white.
.PP
\-\-black\-background=REGEX : highlight background of text matching
REGEX in black.
.PP
\-\-bold=REGEX : put text matching REGEX in bold text.
.PP
\-\-italic=REGEX : put text matching REGEX in italic text.
My terminal does not support this, however.
.PP
\-\-underline=REGEX : underline text matching REGEX.
.PP
\-\-invert=REGEX, \-\-reverse=REGEX : highlight text matching REGEX with
reverse video.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]grep\f[] (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Clark Grubb.
