.TH NORMALIZE-UTF8 1 "February 8, 2014" 
.SH NAME
.PP
normalize-utf8 - convert UTF-8 encoded files or standard input to a
normalized form
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
normalize-utf8 [--nfc|--nfd|--nfkc|--nfkd] [FILE]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Put UTF-8 encoded Unicode text into a normalized form.
.PP
Unicode contains different character sequences which are rendered the
same way.
An example is SMALL LETTER C WITH CEDILLA, which can be represented as a
single character: U+00E7 or as SMALL LETTER C followed by COMBINING
CEDILLA: U+0063 U+0327.
When performing a string comparison, the two sequences should often be
regarded as identifical.
If the strings being compared have been put into normal form, then a
simple string comparison can be used.
.PP
The Unicode standard defines four normalization forms.
NFC (Normal Form C), which is the default format used by
\f[C]normalize-utf8\f[], favors single character representations over
multiple character representations containing combining marks.
NFC is also called W3C normalization.
.PP
Conversely, NFD (Normal Form D) favors multiple character
representations consisting of a simple character representation followed
by a combining mark.
Converting a string to NFD is faster because the algorithm for
converting a string to NFC starts by converting it to NFD.
.PP
NFKC and NFKD conflate compatibility composites.
These sequences which are visually distinct but semantically the same.
Examples are the ff and ffi ligatures.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
--nfc : write input to standard out in Normal Form C
.PP
--nfd : write input to standard out in Normal Form D
.PP
--nfkc : write input to standard out in Normal Form KC
.PP
--nfkd : write input to standard out in Normal Form KD
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]utf8-viewer\f[] (1)
.PP
http://unicode.org/reports/tr15/
.PP
http://www.unicode.org/reports/tr36/
.SH AUTHORS
Clark Grubb.
