.TH UTF8\-VIEWER 1 "May 26, 2013" 
.SH NAME
.PP
utf8\-viewer \- display Unicode points and optionally names of UTF\-8
encoded file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
utf8\-viewer [\-b|\-c|\-n][\-w NUM] [FILE]
.PP
utf8\-viewer [\-b|\-c|\-n] \-a BYTE ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Convert UTF\-8 to Unicode.
The Unicode points are hex digits.
The UTF\-8 bytes are read from a file, or standard input if no file is
specified.
By default eight characters are displayed per line.
The characters are rendered on the left and the Unicode points are on
the right.
.PP
With the \-a flag each UTF\-8 byte is specified as an argument on the
command line.
The format of the bytes can be binary, octal, decimal, or hex.
The prefixes \[aq]0b\[aq], \[aq]0x\[aq], and \[aq]0\[aq] must be used to
indicate binary, hex, and octal bytes, respectively.
Decimal bytes must not have a leading zero.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\-a, \-\-arg : read the UTF\-8 bytes from the command line.
.PP
\-b, \-\-byte\-offset : display the offset in bytes of the leftmost
character on the row.
.PP
\-c, \-\-char\-offset : display the offset in characters of the leftmost
character on the row.
.PP
\-i, \-\-invalid\-char : Unicode point of the character to use for
invalid bytes.
The default is U+25A0 "BLACK SQUARE".
Has no effect unless the \-r flag is also used.
.PP
\-n, \-\-name : use the Internet to lookup the character name for the
Unicode code point.
This implies a width of 1.
.PP
\-\-no\-render : don\[aq]t display the characters in addition to the
Unicode points.
.PP
\-u, \-\-unprintable\-char : Unicode point of the character to use for
unprintable characters.
The default is U+25A1 "WHITE SQUARE".
Has no effect unless the \-r flag is also used.
.PP
\-w NUM, \-\-width NUM : number of characters to display on each row.
Default is 8.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
How to display the old Mac Roman character set:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ ruby\ \-e\ \[aq](0..255).each\ {\ |i|\ print\ i.chr\ }\[aq]\ |\ iconv\ \-f\ mac\ \-t\ utf8\ |\ utf8\-viewer
\f[]
.fi
.PP
How to display Code Page 437 used by the original IBM PC:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ ruby\ \-e\ \[aq](0..255).each\ {\ |i|\ print\ i.chr\ }\[aq]\ |\ iconv\ \-f\ cp437\ \-t\ utf8\ |\ utf8\-viewer
\f[]
.fi
.PP
How to display Code Page 1252, also called Windows 1252:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ ruby\ \-e\ \[aq](0..255).each\ {\ |i|\ print\ i.chr\ }\[aq]\ |\ iconv\ \-\-byte\-subst=\[aq]\ \[aq]\ \-f\ ms\-ansi\ \-t\ utf8\ |\ utf8\-viewer
\f[]
.fi
.PP
How to display the entire Basic Multilingual Plane:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ ruby\ \-e\ \[aq](0..0xfff).each\ {\ |i|\ print\ [i].pack("U")\ }\[aq]\ |\ utf8\-viewer
\f[]
.fi
.PP
If you need to convert a Unicode code point to UTF\-8 bytes, the
following will work when using the \f[C]zsh\f[] shell:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ echo\ \-n\ \[aq]\\u2028\[aq]\ |\ od\ \-b
\f[]
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]od\f[] (1), \f[C]hexdump\f[] (1), \f[C]hexedit\f[] (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Clark Grubb.
