.TH XLSX\-TO\-CSV 1 "May 4, 2013" 
.SH NAME
.PP
xlsx\-to\-csv \- convert .xlsx to .csv
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
xlsx\-to\-csv\ XLSX\\_FILE\ OUTPUT_DIR
xlsx\-to\-csv\ \-\-sheet=SHEET\ XLSX\\_FILE\ [OUTPUT\\_FILE]
xlsx\-to\-csv\ \-\-list\ XLSX\\_FILE
\f[]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Read a .xlsx file and create a .csv file in DIRECTORY for each
worksheet.
.PP
DIRECTORY must not already exist.
.PP
Output is UTF\-8 encoded.
.PP
\&.xlsx files are the format used by Excel since 2007.
The .xlsx file format defined by ECMA\-376.
An .xlsx file is a ZIP archive of a directory containing XML documents.
The \f[C]unzip\ \-l\f[] command can be used to list the contents of a
ZIP archive and hence an .xlsx file.
.PP
\f[C]xlsx\-to\-csv\f[] also works on .xls files which were used by Excel
before 2007.
.PP
The tool can easily take a minute or more to process a large (~100MB)
workbook.
Unfortunately, it takes about this long just to list the sheet names
with the \f[C]\-\-list\f[] flag.
Hence it is more efficient to extract all of the sheets from a large
workbook even if only one of the sheets is needed.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\-\-list : list the sheets in XLSX_FILE
.PP
\-\-sheet : only convert SHEET to a .csv file.
.PP
\-\-date\-format=STRFTIME_FMT : a \f[C]strftime\f[] style format to be
used for Excel dates.
The default is the ISO 8601 format: \[aq]%Y\-%m\-%dT%H:%M:%S\[aq].
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]csv\-to\-tsv\f[] (1), \f[C]strftime\f[] (3)
.PP
http://www.ecma\-international.org/publications/standards/Ecma\-376.htm
.SH AUTHORS
Clark Grubb.
